SOURCE: reddit_ics33_to_45c
COURSE: ICS 45c
TYPE: reddit_thread

POST: Transition from ICS33 to ICS 45C

I am a second year CS major, currently taking ICS33. I am really struggling with python and am debating to take next quarter without ICS45C to strengthen my coding skills with python. Do I have to be really good with python in order to succeed in 45C or are we starting from scratch? Essentially, I am asking whether it is a good idea to not take 45C next quarter? Also any suggestions with ICS 33 helps! Im just really stressed about not learning and passing.

COMMENT:  You don’t need to get better at python for ICS45C (although getting good at python is not a bad idea), what’s more important is that you get good at understanding how programming works, and what kind of things are possible (if someone gives you a task you generally know what to do to accomplish it). Knowing what’s possible is the main thing, looking up libraries to do it is the easy part.

I personally thought 45C was one of the easier classes in the program, for me it was easier than 33. And 46 was harder than any upper div class barring 161.

A lot depends on which professor you have. 

COMMENT:  In your case, you technically have the time to not take 45C immediately. It might even work to your advantage because Ibrahim is teaching 45C winter quarter, so if you take it spring you'll get Thornton. It'll be harder than Ibrahim's class, but you'll get cooler projects and learn more. However, if you take 45C next quarter, you'll have ample time to continue working on your Python and self-study more C++ (which I highly recommend if you take 45C with Ibrahim).

I think a lot of people feel stressed out during/immediately after ICS 33 Project 1, but I assure you that if you do everything you're supposed to be doing (watching lectures, reading notes, going to lab/OH, and always be coding) you will adjust to the pace of 33. Project 1 is undoubtedly the longest in that entire class and takes good time management. If you make it past Proj 1, the rest of the class will feel much more manageable. 

COMMENT:  I would say that 45c / c++ is a bit more difficult since you have only a quarter to learn a whole language and c++ is not too friendly. However, taking the course definitely changed my passion for programming. I was in a similar situation when i first took python, I never had exposure before college for programming so i struggled a lot + i didnt have that passion so I never practiced coding outside of coursework. And that was my biggest mistake, not practicing syntax or white boarding logic consistently (i remember i struggled on a python exam bc i couldnt remember how to handwrite the syntax for a forloop lul.) But yeah that changed when I took 45c with the mindset of coding it everyday, doing edabit problems then leetcode, white boarding the logic, working on syntax, etc. And it really helped me to be confident in my problem solving skills + fundamentals and now its my go to language for interviews. Its definitely fast pace, but if you set goals, practice daily, and most importantly, have a good mindset, then I'm 99% sure youll succeed and find what youre looking for! 

COMMENT:  In my opinion. If you feel you want to take another quarter to prepare go for it. 33,45c are the tougher classes major requirements to weed out a lot of peeps. Lots of peeps going to ics major tend to drop and switch to a different department during these classes. U also learn that with a lot of coding languages, if u know coding logic(for loops, arrays, etc) then u can pick up the small syntax and grammar different rules of different languages and use them proficiently enough fast. For c++ it’s like python but everything needs to be set with more parameters, and it is less similar to using English. So mainly just more syntax strict and such, but u will be learning new data structures and some algorithm logic, which may be rough if u are having trouble with 33. 33 and 45c were hard for me, and even though we are doing online classes so arguably more time, it can be hard to self motivate and do the classes without labs, physical interaction with ta. My advice, either take it but be prepared to dedicate not only time, but get help from others(ta,professor, tutor, peers,coding websites) or just take a quarter to get better at the building blocks. But hey everyone experiences this stuff in their own ways, so it will be wat it will be for you. And for passing ics 33, just gotta dedicate time and effort of course, but also try to remember work smart not necessarily hard , that’s the advice of a peroson who does like 3 hours of code only to realize the professor wanted B not A....or that doing it this simple way taught here or this function is better than brute force multiple calculations. And working in partners, if the curriculum is still like this, is good, even if the partner is not the best or good, having another person to bounce off ideas or talk about your code with helps a lot more than you would think. #look up rubber duck coding. 